---
layout: post
title:  "Distributed Concensus: PAXOS"
date:   2022-05-12
desc: "My views on the PAXOS protocol for distributed consensus"
keywords: "gh-pages,website,blog,computer science,software engineering,system design,distributed systems, file systems"
categories: [Computer Science, System Design, Distributed Systems, Backend, File systems, Software Engineering, Storage]
tags: [Computer Science, System Design, Distributed Systems, Backend, File systems, Software Engineering, Storage]
icon: icon-html
---
Reference papers:

\[1\ PAXOS Made Live: An Engineering Perspective] [](https://www.cs.utexas.edu/users/lorenzo/corsi/cs380d/papers/paper2-1.pdf)

## Summary 
Paxos is a well known and researched consensus protocol to obtain fault tolerance in distributed systems. In this paper, Chandra et al. highlight their experience in implementing the Paxos algorithm to achieve fault-tolerant replication in distributed systems in a production environment. They show that even though the algorithm is well researched in academic literature, its practical implementation is still a quite involved process. First, the authors explain the limitations of the previous fault-tolerant database used by Google’s lock service (Chubby) which motivated them to implement their own Paxos based database as a replacement. The authors start by introducing the Paxos algorithm to provide the necessary background for the readers. The authors then go on to highlight many practical challenges and the solutions they developed while implementing the protocol, such as disk corruptions, dealing with stale data using master leases, detecting master turnover using epoch numbers etc. Some optimizations such as multi-paxos, client trigerred snapshot etc. make their system more robust. The authors highlight the lessons learned during the implementation process, including the importance of choosing the right abstractions, testing thoroughly, and carefully handling failure scenarios. The paper concludes by listing some open problems and encouraging the research community working in fault-tolerant systems to develop tools that help in the transition of theoretical concepts into real-world production ready protocols. Overall, The paper serves as a valuable resource for engineers looking to implement Paxos in their own systems.

## Positive Points
* The paper provides valuable practical insights into the implementation of Paxos, including how to handle various failure scenarios and the importance of testing thoroughly. For instance, section 7 highlighting the various failure reasons was very insightful.
* The paper is based on Google’s experience of implementing Paxos in their Chubby lock service, which makes it a valuable resource for engineers looking to implement Paxos in real-world systems, the failure scenarios can be considered as a cautionary tale for developers.
* The comparison provided in table 1 indicates that despite all the extra overhead involved in correctly imple- menting Paxos, their system has significant performance gains over the existing system. Thes results are very promising given that optimization was not their point of focus while designing the system.

## Drawbacks
* The paper assumes a high level of technical knowledge and familiarity with distributed systems and the Paxos algorithm, which may make it difficult for some readers to understand. It would have been helpful if the authors elaborated further on some of the optimizations they implemented such as multi-paxos.
* The paper is focused solely on Google’s experience of implementing Paxos in their Chubby lock service, which may limit its relevance to engineers working on other types of systems. Maybe the authors may have included a section about considerations to be made for implementing paxos in general distributed systems.
* The paper does not provide a comparison with other state machine replication algorithms or lock services, which may make it difficult for readers to fully understand the benefits and limitations of using Paxos.

## Research Questions
1. Can Paxos be used to build some other applications other than databases? How can we leverage Paxos to build useful distributed systems?
2. What are the consistency guarantees provided by Paxos in the context of a lock service like Chubby, and how do these guarantees compare with other replication algorithms?
3. How does the Paxos implementation of Chubby compare with other such services like ZooKeeper?